Материал:  
1                                                            © www.perfect -english -grammar.com   
                                               May be freely copied for personal or classroo m use.  
      
Stative Verbs List  
Some verbs are only (or mostly) used in simple tenses, and are not used in continuous tenses. 
An example of a simple tense is the present simple, or the past simple. An example of a 
continuous tense is t he present continuous or past  continuous. These verbs are called stative, 
or state verbs. A verb which isn 't stative is called a dynamic verb, and is usually an action. 
Often stative verbs are about liking or disliking something, or about a mental state, n ot about 
an action.  
 
Verb  Correct Not Correct  
   
agree She didn 't agree with us.  She wasn 't agreeing with us.  
   
appear  It appears to be raining.  It is appearing to be raining.  
   
believe  I don 't believe the news.  I am not believing the news.  
   
belong This book belonged to my  This book was belonging to my  
 grandfather.  grandfather.  
   
concern  This concerns you.  This is concerning you.  
   
consist  Bread consists of flour, water  and Bread is consisting of flour, water  
 yeast.  and yeast.  
   
contain This box contains a cake . This box is containing a cake.  
   
depend  It depends on the weather.  It's depending on the weather.  
   
deserve  He deserves to pass the exam.  He is deserving to pass the exam.  
   
disagree  I disagree with you.  I am disagre eing with you.  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
2                                                            © www.perfect -english -grammar.com   
                                               May be freely copied for personal or classroo m use.  
  
  dislike  
I have disliked mushrooms for  years.   
I have been disliking mushrooms  
  for years.  
   
  doubt I doubt what you are saying.  I am doubting what you are  saying.  
   
feel (=have  I don 't feel that this is a good  idea.  I am not feeling t hat this is a  good  
an opinion)   idea.  
   
fit This shirt fits me well.  This shirt is fitting me well.  
   
hate Julie 's always hated dogs.  Julie 's always been hating dogs.  
   
hear Do you hear music?  Are you hearing music?  
   
  imagine  I imagine you must be tired.  I am imagining you must be tired.  
   
  impress  He impressed me with his story.  He was impressing me with his  story.  
   
  include  This cookbook i ncludes a recipe  This cookbook is including a  recipe  
 for bread.  for bread.  
   
  involve  The job invo lves a lot of  travelling.  The job is involving a lot of  travelling.  
   
  know  I've known Julie for ten years.  I've been knowing Julie for ten  years.  
   
  like I like reading detective stories.  I am liking reading detective  stories.  
   
   
 
 
 
3                                                            © www.perfect -english -grammar.com   
                                               May be freely copied for personal or classroo m use.  
    
love I love chocolate.  I'm loving chocolate.*  
   
matter  It doesn 't matter.  It isn 't mattering.  
   
mean  'Enormous ' means 'very big '. 'Enormous ' is meaning 'very b ig'. 
   
measure (=be  This window measures 150cm.  This window is measuring  150cm.  
long)    
   
mind She doesn 't mind the noise.  She isn 't minding the noise.  
   
need  At three o 'clock yesterday I  At three o 'clock yesterday I was  
 needed a taxi.  needing a  taxi. 
   
owe I owe you £20.  I am owing you £20.  
   
own She owns two cars.  She is ownin g two cars. 
   
prefer  I prefer chocolate ice cream.  I am preferring chocolate ice  cream.  
   
promise  I promise to help you tomorrow.  I am promising to help you  tomorrow.  
   
realise  I didn 't realise the problem.  I wasn 't realising the problem.  
   
recognise  I didn 't recognise my old friend.  I wasn 't recognising my old  friend.  
   
remember  He didn 't remember my name.  He wasn 't remembering my name.  
   
seem The weather seems to be  improving.  The weather is seeming to be  
  improving.  
   
  sound  Your idea s ounds great.  Your idea is sounding great.  
   
suppose  I suppose John will be late.  I'm supposing John will be late.  
   
 
4                                                            © www.perfect -english -grammar.com   
                                               May be freely copied for personal or classroo m use.  
    
  surprise  The noise surprised me.  The noise was surprising me.  
   
  understand  I don 't understand this question.  I'm not underst anding this  question.  
   
  want  I want to go to the cinema  tonight.  I am wa nting to go to the cinema  
  tonight.  
   
  weigh (=have  This cake weighs 450g.  This cake is weighing 450g.  
  weight)    
   
  wish  I wish I had studied more.  I am wish ing I had  studied more.  
 
 
5                                                            © www.perfect -english -grammar.com   
                                               May be freely copied for personal or classroo m use.  
  
 
 
 
 
Some verbs can be both stative and dynamic:  
  
be be is usually a stative verb, but when it is used in the continuous it  
 means 'behaving ' or 'acting ' 
 you are stupid = it 's part of your personality  
 you are being st upid =  only now , not usually  
  
have  have (stative) = own  
 I have a car  
 have (dynamic) =  part of an expression  
 I'm having a party / a picnic / a bath / a good time / a break  
  
see see (stative) = see with your eyes / understand  
 I see what you mea n 
 I see her n ow, she 's just coming along the road  
 see (dynamic) = meet / have a relation ship with  
 I've been seeing my boyfriend for three years  
 I'm seeing Robert tomorrow  
  
taste (also:  taste (stative) = has a certain taste  
smell, feel,  This sou p tast es great  
look)  taste (dynamic) = the action of tasting  
 The chef is tasting the soup  
  
think  think (stative) = have an opinion  
 I think that coffee is great  
 think (dynamic) = consider, have in my head  
 what are you thinking about? I 'm thinkin g abou t my next  holiday  
   
